Module two, lesson four,
the incentive model. As we learned earlier in module one, mining is the process used to secure the
network by validating the computations, collecting them to form a block,
verifying them, and broadcasting it. Ethereum also uses a incentive-based
model for block creation. In this lesson we'll explore some
relevant concept about fee structure and the incentive model. Every action in Ethereum
requires crypto fuel, or gas. Gas points are used to specify
the fees inside of Ether, for ease of computation using standard values. Gas points allow for cryptocurrency independent valuation of
the transaction fee and computation fees. Ether, as a cryptocurrency,
varies in value with market swings, but gas points do not vary. Ethereum has specified gas points for
each type of operation. Mining process computes gas points
required for execution of a transaction. If the fee specified and the gas point in the transaction
are not sufficient, it is rejected. This is similar to mailing a letter
with insufficient postage. The letter will not be delivered
if it had insufficient postage. The gas points needed for execution
must be in the account balance for the execution to happen. If there is any amount left over
after the execution of a transaction, it is returned to the originating account. So far we looked at the gas
related items in a transaction, now let's look at the gas
related items in a block. Gas limit and gas spent. Gas limit is the amount of gas points
available for a block to spend. For example, if a block specifies
a limit of 1 million 5 hundred thousand units of gas, and
a basic Ether transaction fee is 21,000, this particular Ethereum block can fit
about 70 plain Ether transactions. If we add smart contract
transactions also into this block, that usually requires more gas,
and the number of transactions for this block will likely be lower. Gas spent is the actual amount of gas spent at the completion
of the block creation. Now let's look at
the mining incentive model. The proof of work puzzle winner,
miner that creates a new block, is incentivized with the base
fees of three Ethers, and the transaction fees in
Ethereum blockchain. The winning miner also gets the fees,
gas points for execution of a smart
contract transactions. That there may be other miners who also
solve the puzzle besides the winner. These miners will solve the puzzle, but
didn't win the block are called Ommers. The blocks created by them
are called Ommer Blocks. These are added as Ommer Blocks, or
side blocks, to the main chain. Ommer miners also get a small
percentage of the total gas points as a consolation and for network security. Summarizing, any transaction in Ethereum,
including transfer of Ethers, requires fees or gas points to be
specified in the transactions. Miners are paid fees for
security, validation, execution of smart contract,
as well as for creation of blocks. We presented a high level
view of Ethereum blockchain. We'll use Ethereum as a reference
blockchain in the next two modules and the following two courses.